---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3: WOD Technical Essay "
date: 2023 
published: true
labels:
  - WOD
  - Workout
  - Coding
summary: "My reflection on my experience with WOD's 4-6."
---
In my reflection, I will be sharing my reflection and experience with all three workouts of the day. 

For WOD4 (Browser History 6), we needed to use our work from Browser History 3 to complete the task. Thankfully I finished WOD3 (Browser History 3) by the deadline but it was a good reminder that a lot of the work in this class builds up off of one another and that it is important to stay on task. In my opinion, I found that this WOD was the hardest one up to date (even with the other two I will take about in this reflection) and it took me 4 tries. For the first attempt, I watched the video to understand what task needed to be done. This was a long video with a lot of coding and problems so I seperated it into two attempts. I watched half of the video and proceeded to do half of the WOD assignment. I struggled a lot and needed to rewatch the video while I was doing the assignment because I got stuck. I completed half of it one way through and decided to go again. I was glad I split it into 2 parts because for one, there was a lot to remember and secondly, it helped me understand what I was doing better. Once I finished, I decided to watch the video again and figure out what I did wrong. I went back to the questions to understand what it was asking me to do and what I needed to accomplish. I went back again to redo it and found a lot of progress. I still needed to go back to the video but it was a lot better. I understood it and finished up the parts. I then repeated this step with the second part of the video. Once I completed it all, I tried to complete everything in one full run and got most of it but I was confused at some sections. I proceeded to rewatch some sections and was then able to complete the WOD with an AV time. 

For WOD5 (SmartPhoneProducts1), I found it to be so much easier than WOD 4. I started this WOD really early so I was able to watch the video a couple times before starting. I noticed that a lot of the questions it was asking were things that we've either done in the labs or things that we've already practiced in the WOD's so it felt like a review session with skills I already knew how to do. I simply followed the directions that the WOD was asking and applied what I already knew, as well as knowledge from watching the video a couple of times to complete this workout of the day. A lot of what we had to do for this assignment was copy and pasting code from the example onto VS Code while adding tags for example like h2 tags. This was the WOD I felt the most comfortable and relaxed doing out of all the ones we had so far. I finished it with an AV time.

Lastly for WOD6 (invoice), I struggled with it a good bit. I found it to be very tedious, especially when it came to changing every section. For this WOD, you copy and paste things multiple times and then have to change the number from 1 to a different one (2, 3, 4, or 5). I found that you had to make sure every section was labeled correctly because if not, the website would not turn out to how you wanted it to look. Another thing that I got confused on was the document.write. At this time (when I attempted the WOD), I didn't really know how to use document.write so I found it pretty challenge to use it in my code along with to.Fixed. As usual when starting the WOD, I watched the reference video first so I could see how the WOD is meant to be completed. After watching it, I did not want to go with WOD4's approach of splitting the video into two parts and doing each section collectively. Although this was a good idea and helped me a lot for my previous WOD, it is very time consuming and I knew how to do many steps in this WOD as opposed to WOD4. I had my first attempt and it went as I planned in to go, alright but not super good. I went back to some sections of the video to check what I did wrong and how it was supposed to be done. I quickly jumped in to my second attempt and messed up again. I messed up on the document.write once again and I had to go back to the video for reference. I took a deep breath and watched the video in its entirety while rewatching the document.write section multiple times. Going into my second attempt, I rushed it so I went with a more conservative approach. I finally understood the assignment and finished it with an AV time.
